In an earlier video, I've written
down a form for the cost function for
logistic regression.
In this optional video, I want to
give you a quick justification for
why we like to use that cost function for
logistic regression.
To quickly recap, in logistic regression,
we have that the prediction y hat
is sigmoid of w transpose x + b,
where sigmoid is this familiar function.
And we said that we want to interpret
y hat as the p( y = 1 | x).
So we want our algorithm to
output y hat as the chance
that y = 1 for
a given set of input features x.
So another way to say this
is that if y is equal to 1
then the chance of y given
x is equal to y hat.
And conversely if y is equal to 0 then
the chance that y was 0 was 1- y hat,
right?
So if y hat was a chance, that y = 1,
then 1- y hat is the chance that y = 0.
So, let me take these last two equations
and just copy them to the next slide.
So what I'm going to do is
take these two equations which
basically define p(y|x) for
the two cases of y = 0 or y = 1.
And then take these two equations and
summarize them into a single equation.
And just to point out y has to be either 0
or 1 because in binary cost equations,
y = 0 or 1 are the only two
possible cases, all right.
When someone take these two equations and
summarize them as follows.
Let me just write out what it looks like,
then we'll explain why it looks like that.
So (1 – y hat) to the power of (1 – y).
So it turns out this one line
summarizes the two equations on top.
Let me explain why.
So in the first case,
suppose y = 1, right?
So if y = 1 then this
term ends up being y hat,
because that's y hat to the power of 1.
This term ends up being 1- y hat to the
power of 1- 1, so that's the power of 0.
But, anything to the power of 0
is equal to 1, so that goes away.
And so, this equation,
just as p(y|x) = y hat, when y = 1.
So that's exactly what we wanted.
Now how about the second case,
what if y = 0?
If y = 0, then this equation
above is p(y|x) = y hat to the 0,
but anything to the power
of 0 is equal to 1, so
that's just equal to 1 times
1- y hat to the power of 1- y.
So 1- y is 1- 0, so this is just 1.
And so this is equal to 1
times (1- y hat) = 1- y hat.
And so here we have that the y = 0,
p (y|x) = 1- y hat,
which is exactly what we wanted above.
So what we've just shown
is that this equation
is a correct definition for p(ylx).
Now, finally, because the log function is a
strictly monotonically increasing function,
your maximizing log p(y|x) should
give you a similar result as
optimizing p(y|x). And if you compute
log of p(y|x), that’s equal to
log of y hat to the power of y,
1 - y hat to the power of 1 - y.
And so that simplifies to y log y hat
+ 1- y times log 1- y hat, right?
And so
this is actually negative of the loss
function that we had to find previously.
And there's a negative sign there because
usually if you're training a learning
algorithm, you want to
make probabilities large
whereas in logistic regression
we're expressing this.
We want to minimize the loss function.
So minimizing the loss corresponds to
maximizing the log of the probability.
So this is what the loss function
on a single example looks like.
How about the cost function,
the overall cost function on
the entire training set on m examples?
Let's figure that out.
So, the probability of all
the labels In the training set.
Writing this a little bit informally.
If you assume that the training examples
I've drawn independently or drawn IID,
identically independently distributed,
then the probability of the example
is the product of probabilities.
The product from i = 1 through
m p(y(i) ) given x(i).
And so if you want to carry out
maximum likelihood estimation, right,
then you want to maximize the,
find the parameters that maximizes
the chance of your observations and
training set.
But maximizing this is the same
as maximizing the log, so
we just put logs on both sides.
So log of the probability of the labels
in the training set is equal to,
log of a product is the sum of the log.
So that's sum from i=1 through
m of log p(y(i)) given x(i).
And we have previously
figured out on the previous
slide that this is negative L of y hat i,
y i.
And so in statistics, there's a principle
called the principle of maximum likelihood
estimation, which just means to choose
the parameters that maximizes this thing.
Or in other words,
that maximizes this thing.
Negative sum from i = 1 through
m L(y hat ,y) and
just move the negative sign
outside the summation.
So this justifies the cost we had for
logistic regression
which is J(w,b) of this.
And because we now want to minimize
the cost instead of maximizing likelihood,
we've got to rid of the minus sign.
And then finally for convenience, to make
sure that our quantities are better scale,
we just add a 1 over m
extra scaling factor there.
But so to summarize, by minimizing
this cost function J(w,b) we're really
carrying out maximum likelihood estimation
with the logistic regression model.
Under the assumption that our
training examples were IID, or
identically independently distributed.
So thank you for watching this video,
even though this is optional.
I hope this gives you a sense of why
we use the cost function we do for
logistic regression.
And with that, I hope you go on to
the programming exercises and
the quiz questions of this week.
And best of luck with both the quizzes,
and the programming exercise.